added specification for maintaining room state (#67)
dyc3/ssw345-group-assignments: final-project/manRoomStates.tex

\chapter{Maintaining Room State \\
  \small{\textit{-- Evan Ciok, Sophia DiCuffa, Carson McManus}}
  \index{Chapter!room-state}
  \label{Chapter::RoomState}}

\section{Lost Balancer-Monolith Connections}

The connection between the load balancer and the individual monoliths is vital to the operation of OTT, so when one of these connections is lost, it needs to be handled appropriately. 
The most important consideration is what to do with all clients connected to rooms on that given monolith. Without the balancer connecting to it, it is no longer viable and all clients 

> should be unloaded from the rooms. From there, they can reconnect to a room through the load balancer to a monolith with a valid connection. 

Reviewer: A few points here:
- The monolith always initiates the websocket connection to the balancer. The balancer only accepts inbound websocket connections, and does not make any outgoing websocket connections.
- clients should be _removed_ from rooms, not _unloaded_
- the clients connected to the balancer need to be disconnected
- I feel like you're padding out the important information with more words than is necessary. For example:

> The connection between the load balancer and the individual monoliths is vital to the operation of OTT, so when one of these connections is lost, it needs to be handled appropriately.

This is overly verbose for the amount of information it conveys, and the first half is obvious at this point in the paper. You could say

> When a Balancer-Monolith connection is lost, clients connected to that monolith need to be handled appropriately. Otherwise, the accuracy of room state is compromised.

> \section{Duplicate Rooms Across Monoliths}

Reviewer: It would also be really good to have a diagram for this section.

Author: what type of diagram do you think? sequence?

Reviewer: Sure, sounds good.

Two monolith nodes should never have the same room loaded, as the load balancer should be directing all connections for a given room to the designated monolith using its preserved states. 
In the case that this does happen, the system is then in a bad state and it must be resolved. The proposed solution to this issue is to have the load balancer unload rooms that were not the 
first instance of that particular room. This means that the duplicate instances which put the system into a bad state would be unloaded and the clients could then reconnect to the room with 

> the proper path. In order to accomplish this, two approaches have been hypothesized thus far. First, every room could have a timestamp associated with it, designating the time it was loaded. 

Reviewer: > In order to accomplish this, two approaches have been hypothesized thus far.

Make a decision. You are specifying the project.

My personal opinion is that rooms should have a "loaded at" timestamp, because it would be easier to implement.

> the proper path. In order to accomplish this, two approaches have been hypothesized thus far. First, every room could have a timestamp associated with it, designating the time it was loaded. 

Reviewer: > could then reconnect to the room with the proper path.

What is the path you are talking about here?

Then, in the case of duplication, the timestamps can be compared and the more recently loaded instances can be handled appropriately. The other potential approach is to store an atomic integer 
in redis that is automatically incremented upon each room load, which can be used to appropriately determine the original instance of a room if needed. No matter which approach is taken, 

> the key issue is flagging the original instance and unloading the rest to return the system to a healthy state. An important consideration in this implementation is assessing what happens to 

Reviewer: > An important consideration

Again, you are specifying the project. You need to consider this, and write down what should and should not happen, not leave it to the reader to decide.

\chapter{Maintaining Room State \\
  \small{\textit{-- Evan Ciok, Sophia DiCuffa, Carson McManus}}
  \index{Chapter!room-state}
  \label{Chapter::RoomState}}

\section{Lost Balancer-Monolith Connections}

When a Balancer-Monolith connection is lost, clients connected to that monolith need to be handled appropriately. Otherwise, the accuracy of room state is compromised. 

> Without the balancer properly accepting the websocket connection, it is no longer viable and all clients connected to the balancer need to be disconnected and removed 

Reviewer: In this scenario, the connections between clients and the balancer are already established. It needs to be more clear that because the balancer-monolith connection is lost, the client-balancer connections that ultimately lead to the lost monolith are no longer valid, and therefore should be disconnected.

```suggestion
All client connections that are in rooms on the lost monolith are no longer valid, so they need to be disconnected and removed 
```

Author: gotcha, that makes sense. i wasn't sure on the particular wording but its clear now thanks

from their rooms. From there, they can reconnect to a monolith with a new websocket connection to the balancer. 

\section{Duplicate Rooms Across Monoliths}

Two monolith nodes should never have the same room loaded, as the load balancer should be directing all connections for a given room to the designated monolith using its preserved states. 
In the case that this does happen, the system is then in a bad state and it must be resolved. The planned solution to this issue is to have the load balancer unload rooms that were not the 
first instance of that particular room. This means that the duplicate instances would be unloaded and the clients could then rejoin the room in a healthy state. In order to accomplish this, 

> every room could have a timestamp associated with it, designating the time it was loaded. Then, in the case of duplication, the timestamps can be compared and the more recently loaded 

Reviewer: nit: this is a requirement

```suggestion
every room must have a timestamp associated with it, designating the time it was loaded. Then, in the case of duplication, the timestamps can be compared and the more recently loaded 
```
